I never in a million years imagined we
would get to this point anybody who
requires uh any complex consistent
weekly treatment those people are all
dead already in
Gaza no no place is safe the aim is to
wipe out everything it's one thing again
to die in an air strike it's one thing
to be a victim of trauma but it's
another thing to starve to death
[Music]
my name is R sub and I work as nutrition
officer in mid Global in North Gaza I
have witnessed and lived the war in the
Gaza from the beginning and as I did not
move to the S what you hear on the
ground is the buzzing sound of
surveillance drones that don't leave the
skies this is like uh
247 music to our ears uh bad music
something that we uh we haven't
consented to listen to right now I'm
standing in shifa hospital in Gaza this
hospital is the biggest everything is
collapsing in Health Systems hospitals
collapsing like I said that we have 22
Health Centers we have only four now so
services are collapsing the people are
so tired so all the challenge you can
think of is H having
[Music]
Gaza I've been in Jordan for the Z
refugee camp for syan refug refes I was
in Greece uh Tess Niki next to the
Hungarian border when when there were
refugees on the ground there uh I was in
I've been in Haiti I've been in Ghana
I've been uh with rangan refugees in in
in Bangladesh I had been to Northern
Syria after the earthquake turkey after
the earthquake I've been to Greece
during the refugee crisis to Jordan I
started in Pakistan I have worked more
than two years in Afghanistan Nigeria I
was in South Sudan I work in the Gaza
IND previous war I work in the Syria and
I work in Lebanon I've been in Syria
I've been in Yemen I've been in Iraq in
South Lebanon all of those trips are
nothing compared to this trip I have
never seen this kind of crisis in my
life it's different here but I've never
been in a genocidal War where the aim is
to wipe out everything where the aim is
to take out the health system as a
central part of the military strategy
Gaza is on another level and it's all
because everything is working against
the people and you just see
[Music]
well the last attempt that we tried to
get into Gaza I was turned away I mean
one communication even suggested that if
your grandparents or Palestinian that
you would not be allowed to enter and if
somehow you're able to enter you're not
going to be to leave so this is these
are the things that we're hearing now
and I mean you know you can imagine the
sort of Rage that you know that that
sort of that I have inside of me hearing
something like that I mean I speak the
language I know the the Customs the
practices I know the land I know the
people they're my people they look like
me uh their kids look like my kids and
we're talking about preventing me to
from from accessing this piece of land
that you know I have so much connection
and uh there's so much emotion that's
there I mean the first question is why
what purpose does that serve what
purpose does it serve to prevent
somebody like me from entering into Gaza
and I will be testing it I mean I want
to I want to I want to go back and you
know you're going to have to turn me
away again to prevent me from entering
it it felt like uh and what I mean by
that is there's no doubt that there was
a purposeful manipulation of dates to
make it almost impossible to go I we
scheduled ourselves almost every week
and it kept getting canceled with d
before we leave or two days before we
leave because the dates kept changing
for what was approved uh for the number
of people allowed to go for what day we
could cross for what we like to take
with us and uh I my group that was
initially supposed to be eight or 10 or
12 docs ended up being just me in these
hospitals or in these clinics when
you're there um it serves multiple roles
I mean I would say the clinical aspect
of it where you're actually treating
people but it's sort of the
relationships that you're able to form
with your Palestinian colleagues who are
able to share with you the challenges on
a person and professional level the
stories are not getting out there in the
way that they should and it's because
International journalists are not
allowed to enter my my suspicion is uh
is that the reason they don't want that
they limit the international positions
from being there is they want as few
Eyes On The Ground as possible
[Music]
so I remember once looking out of the
window and and seeing a whole
neighborhood go up in Flames as the
Israelis dropped what we now know are
2,000 PB bombs on a neighborhood the
whole neighborhood Goes Up in Flames and
then there's a dust bowl and then once
the dust bowl
settles there's nothing left of that
neighborhood and so it's not like the
the building was Target the whole
neighborhood disappeared when they bomb
the water desalination plants when they
bomb the the sewage pumping plants you
could see that that there were two
parallel targets one was this massive
elimination and annihilation of human
life and the other was the
infrastructure the the the the
investment in the destruction of
infrastructure that they hoped would
then create a genocidal killing machine
diseases and of famine I can't you know
I I really can't even fathom the scale
of Destruction as somebody who used to
take pictures of the beauty of Gaza and
having gone back and then now seeing all
of these places where I have memories of
places where I've gotten to meet some of
the incredible people that's there
seeing that that's been leveled and
destroyed um you know that's something
that's tough to reconcile we get to the
hospital we sleep in the hospital we're
staying there and it's Relentless it's
not stop I remember thinking at night
you know just laying in the mattress in
the room in the hospital and just
getting so frustrated by how often I was
hearing the bombing take place it's you
know you're obviously you can't sleep
but the second part of this is you're
wondering who's on the receiving end of
this bomb and you're like it's just you
know and I don't know what is it a tank
is it a drone is it an is it a fighter
jet is it you know what is what kind of
bomb is exploding I don't know and you
just are hearing it fire every 5 minutes
2:00 a.m. at 3:00 a.m. it's louder you
know at 4: at 4:00 a.m. you hear the
call to prayer and it's it's mixed in
with bombs that are being dropped and
you're like you're just at you're just
like you're just like yelling into the
into the nothingness into the darkness
just you're yelling for it to stop
because you know like downstairs if I go
downstairs to the emergency department I
know that I know what's going to be
coming in and it's all of these
different families that are bringing in
their loved ones by you know they're
carrying them in because you know an
ambulance is too dangerous for an
ambulance to go and retrieve some of the
injured and some of the Dead a young man
had come in and he had lost both of his
legs and I remember his wife I will
never forget his wife kind of was kind
of rushed inside and we're I mean
there's people all over on the floor
that we're trying to treat who had just
been brought um because we didn't have
any beds left and his wife comes up to
us it's just the first question she's
asking because she sees that he's lost
his legs she said please can he can that
be fixed can he get his legs back
because she's seen for the last four
months how many people have lost limbs
and how that's devastated them and how
the infrastructure means that it's a
death sentence there are no wheelchairs
you're not going to get Prosthetics in
Gaza you're not going to get you you'll
be lucky if you can get crutches to move
around normally you try to have a better
ensy rate of 100% it means each bed will
have one patient um we seeing here the
hospitals more with occupancy rate of
300% almost every single one was dis
placed and multiple times so they they
lost their house they lost their living
and they living T and they continue to
work say if you live in our shelters we
have only one toilet for the 398
people and one shower for the 3,000
people every single empty space in that
place was full of somebody sick dying
for their family member they were
displaced people everywhere in these
hospitals I mean literally lining the
hallways any inch of the hospital that
was open was going to be occupied by a
displaced
[Music]
[Laughter]
Palestinian we are uh continuously
running out of essential uh medicines
like barol anti- fever medications and
anti dial medications
and sometimes we have to take to um to
turn away patients telling them that the
only thing that we can give them is only
advice and sometimes they have to close
down they're just announcing we cannot
admit anyone any longer
there was no stretchers there was no
Linens there was no gauze you know very
small amounts of gauze available for
wound care um you know blood products
transfusions infusions of IV fluids um
all those things uh were an extremely
short supply and that's because there's
been a very conscious and structural
effort not to allow any medical supplies
in um which
shocks people when they hear it and they
think you know I've already talked to
people who almost don't believe me and I
tell them this isn't me telling you what
I heard on the news this is me telling
you what I had with me when I tried to
go in to uh to to to Gaza I had you know
five six suitcases full of medical
supplies that I kind of prepared like I
do on every Mission I've ever gone on
medicines antibiotics all those things
and and I was
denied uh denied every one of those bags
from entering and even the you can carry
one bag with you that's less than 23 kg
I mean we but when we were entering
through rafah in Egypt myself and four
other Physicians brought in 23 bags of
medical supplies and that's because we
know that the trucks are stalled at the
borders we know that the trucks are not
able to get in with medical supplies
with infant formula the fundamental of
the Health Service is what stable
installation stable energy and the
stable medicines all of them are lacking
like as I said the many heal Center
closed and the fuel is not coming as
regularly as everybody want medicine we
are running out of almost 40% of the
medicines and it's summer so we have a
lot of skin conditions and they want
have skin medicine which we don't have
yet we trying to send it to Gaza and
power went out regularly so we went from
situations where they already isn't
adequate ventilation you know ORS
operating theaters are supposed to have
a certain amount of turnover of air to
prevent infection and and and some of
these other things and and um you know
the anesthesia machine requires
electricity the the the oxygen machine
requires electricity those things would
stop functioning mid surgery and and the
room would get dark uh and if if there
wasn't a headlamp in the room for the
surgeon to use uh he would wait or she
would wait for the for the lights to
come back on and that could be a minutes
or or or much longer and in the in the
ICU that meant ventilators uh were at
risk of of not working so patients that
were completely dependent upon a machine
to breathe for them would have periods
of time when the machine would turn off
and all the nurses and doctors would run
to their bedside and have to manually
use the amb back uh to to bag them when
I'm walking through the pediatric
department and I'm seeing kids who are
struggling with respiratory viruses
that's working up their asthma but we
don't have enough of the breathing
treatments for them you know you're just
kind of sitting there with your hands
crossed like hoping that things get
better I remember we ran out of
paracetamol Tylenol acetamin we ran out
of that while there's flu and covid
spreading through the pediatric
department so what what am I supposed to
give these kids for fevers we were doing
old old remedies like okay well you know
uh undress them you know try to put some
you know if you can get a hold of
something that's cold put it under their
armpits I mean these things are not
going to work everybody I spoke to told
me they lost 30 kilos every single
person in that months right 20 30 kilos
women lost 15 to 10 20 kilos and all the
men said 30 kilos you see it on their
faces because when you lose weight that
quickly uh you lose weight in a
different way than you do when we try to
lose weight right they lose the the fat
pads and and their temporal area right
their cheeks become kind of sunk in so
when I was there one of the things the
Israelis had done is that they had
surrounded the blood bank and they had
prevented blood products from getting to
hospitals and so a lot of times we were
you know when we were surrounded in Ali
hospital after the Israelis had
surrounded
shifa is is that we needed to do
amputations to save lives because we
didn't have blood products and and the
surgery needed to be stopped needed to
be short everything
refrigerated is gone and when you talk
about medication you think about all the
medications including insulin for
diabetes is is not viable anymore right
so every single patient with type 1
diabetes that is 100% dependent upon
insulin they're dying there's there's
nothing we can do for them I I would say
more we saw more amputations from the
complexity of endstage diabetes than we
did from the Bomb Blast and we saw more
Bomb Blast amputations than I ever
wanted to see in my entire life they're
choked off from the rest of the
[Music]
world people have the gall to say it's
overstated and I I I grab them by the
chest and shake them and tell them you
have no idea what you're talking about
it's the
opposite if the death to only included
the those who died from the immediate
Bomb Blast those numbers are real but if
you want to include everybody who dies
from wound infections three four five
six seven eight days after after the
trauma the number is in the tens of
thousands higher now even if the war
support ends today people cannot go back
home because home their homes are
destroyed and even if you manage to go
back home water supply is limited soil
system limited and the food is limited
economy is collapsing so let's say if
the war there was a ceasefire
today the famine will continue to take
the lives of people the absence of
medication will continue to cause people
to die from chronic diseases that had
been under control but became medical
emergencies because they're
not uh able to uh uh get their
medication the infectious disease is
epidemic and and recently we heard about
polio being detected but hepatitis A
diarrheal diseases will continue to take
the lives particularly of the vulnerable
uh uh children in our study in the
health center almost 10% of the children
are malnourished before the war it was
around 1% and so it's a quite large
increase and once you be one become
malnourished immunity decrease and so
that they have less resistance to the
any infectious diseases well this is
this is uh the Crux of the problem and
this is the cruelty of the war and the
way that it's been prosecuted in Gaza is
we know that again if there is a
ceasefire tomorrow and you open the
borders totally and you allow all of the
possible medical supplies and Aid and
food and water in that there will still
be thousands of people that will die
because it's just too little too late
and we know that that's how the
conditions have been set and this has
been well established this is not
speculation and this is not opinion of
Physicians this has been well
established by John Hopkins School of
Public Health the London School of
tropical medicine and hygiene the lanet
had recently published article thinking
that the death toll is much higher and
that this is what could happen and the
way that people can understand this is
we always talk about in covid if we ran
out of ventilators and supplies how many
people would die who would have
otherwise survived that number is
astronomically high in Gaza and it's
precisely because of the cruel cruelty
of the way that the war has been
prosecuted this is where you see the
horrifying cruelty that's taking place
it's when you've stopped bombing them
and you've stopped having troops on the
ground and people are still dying in
large numbers it's not just about the
building that gets bombed and the people
that die in the bombing it's the fact
that where thousands of people were
Sheltering they don't shelter there
anymore and now they have to go to an
even more crowded place so the risk of
disease will spread there and then you
hear that a water an area where there
was available like in ra 2 days ago the
Israeli Army destroyed a water
infrastructure plant there you think
okay it's destroyed there's damage to
the building but the ripple effect it's
so deep and it's going to cause so many
problems that that's something that I
think needs more attention because you
know you know that's one thing again to
die in an air strike it's one thing to
be a victim of trauma but it's another
thing to starve to death it's another
thing to die from a disease that has a
medicine that all you need is a clean
bed and enough supplies in a hospital to
survive but to die from that and to die
slowly and painfully from that I mean
that's what's going to happen in Gaza
and that's what's happening already in
Gaza for those Physicians that are
constantly exposed to these kind of um
you know horrible images of people
amputated and people uh you know um
butchered in in in in every possible way
and this will have the future
consequences because this will show up
there will be a moment when this these
things will will haunt us or reappear at
some point in the future I was at NAS
hospital when there was the dialysis
center there's a dialysis building right
next to nasar hospital in canun and I
remember coming back and remembering
that the Israeli Army had destroyed the
area there was uh you know it was rans
sacked and it was a you know all of Nas
had become you know an empty space I
remember that there were 500
500 people with kidney failure who were
getting dialysis at that building what
happened to those 500 people their
kidneys don't work dialysis is
life-saving for them and they need it
three times a week three times a week
they need to get that sort of treatment
and you just told them you just kicked
them out of the area where they were
getting treatment to an area where they
would not be able to get treatment what
happened to them toxins filled up in
their body and they died NASA hospital
when it was raided a few months prior to
when I got there um I had multiple
people tell me and that I saw with my
own eyes when I visited there one day
that the entire D unit was destroyed it
was selectively chosen there bullet
holes in dialysis machines you know
anybody who requires uh any complex
consistent weekly
treatment uh uh to survive or not have
rapid progression of the disease those
people are all dead already
[Music]
for
I had the kind of honor of having to
work with Gaz and Physicians and
healthcare workers and nursing
staff who told me their stories
firsthand and showed me pictures on
their phones and and they weren't just
stories they were people that I touched
that I sat with and work with for a
month and got to know who they were um
and they told me stories of uh being
detained of being targeted with weapons
of being sexually abused in in
detainment being stripped naked uh what
one physician told me uh that for the
three weeks of detainment that he was
there that uh the only reason the guard
stopped beating him up is because he
would get tired I was able to speak to a
physician at AA Hospital in central
Gaza in the ICU who took me through how
he was detained and arrested and what
happened to him in the two weeks where
he was abducted from a hospital the
hospital had been shut down and how he
had been stripped naked and how he was
left outside in the cold cuz this was in
January and that process he was just
finally able to share that sort of
degrading and humiliating process with
somebody who's in a similar profession
as him somebody who you know understands
kind of the role that you have within
the community and you know how you're
supposed to serve people and you're
supposed to and this was happening to
him you know I'm able to talk to another
physician who told me about how his mom
his elderly mother is in a displacement
Camp she's in a tent and she has a tough
time walking and the nearest bathroom
for her is is a 15-minute walk you know
he he can't you know that's something
that's the first time he was able to
share that with somebody
unfortunately we lost some of the stuff
because of the
bombardment and so that in un almost 100
more than 190 stuff were killed since
the the start of the war so this is a
day today one there is unfortunately
targeted uh killing of our medical
staffers for example one of my uh one of
the director of the internal medicine
Department Dr raat Lad have been killed
we intimately do feel the constant fear
of being uh directly targeted or a a
justifiable collateral damage honestly I
I don't know how they still manage to
provide services and they are coming
with clean clothes I have no idea how
they still manage to keep this remain of
of of humanity to to go every day to
work because also there is in the
majority of the facilities there is no
salary at the moment they they're
working on voluntary basis you are
asking them to show up to work day in
and day out despite their family being
displaced despite food being a problem
despite not being able to pay them they
are showing up to work day in and day
out knowing they don't have the medicine
that they need the supplies that they
need they are showing up to work knowing
that the hospital could be raided that
they could be arrested or killed or they
could end up in a mass grave in the
perimeter of the hospital and they're
still doing it and they do it in an
incredible fashion with Humanity with
compassion with empathy and most of all
with a skill set that I don't think is
replicated anywhere else uh across the
globe for example just today when the
evacuation order was in place the sub
the water supplier has mentioned has
called us saying that he is not able to
refill his water tank which means that
we don't have clean water now sometimes
we go to uh the local market and find
nothing the staff is so overwhelmed you
know I I remember another young man who
had been brought in who had been uh had
you know this is kind of really so it's
just so tragic but he had come in a
couple of days earlier and the thought
was that the shrapnel that had hit his
body was all superficial and that he
would be okay well you know the way that
shrapnel works is it just sort of
sometimes pierces through your body and
just does so much damage to your
internal organs and I remember he was
brought in when I was there two days
later and he was really sick I mean it
was clear this guy had a lot of damage
inside and we were waiting to see if we
can take him to the operating room but
the rooms were all full with other
injured people and I remember as we're
trying to sort of stabilize him and do
things temporarily to keep him alive
um I had one of his brothers who was
helping deliver you know the breaths at
the head of the bed and I remember
another brother or a cousin I don't I
don't even know but a family member I
was making him hold a bag of blood uh up
in the air so that it can drip into his
veins and it's because we're so short
staffed that his family I had to call on
his family to help me and ultimately
they were there as we watched him
deteriorate slowly and die I mean he he
ended up dying in front of us while his
family is there trying to help him these
are things that you know of course I'm
never going to forget but the families
that have had to deal with this if we
get a ceasefire tomorrow I mean are they
going to forget everything that's
happened are they going to live normal
lives having watched you know what's
happened to them in the way that their
lives have been attacked no I mean it's
never going to be the same
[Laughter]
[Music]
I was in that hospital I lived in Alexa
Hospital literally was stationed there
for an entire month uh I I never saw
anything more than than Hospital
healthcare workers trying their best to
take care of patients and their families
that lived in that place families took
refuge in that place I saw I never saw a
weapon on campus I never saw anything
more than a healthcare team Tak care of
people who were suffering and dying it
seems uh that what I witnessed over and
over again was the purposeful uh use of
of weapons to to to to make uh misery as
Broad and as vast of of a thing as
possible in that place
this whole narrative that the Israelis
created to try to justify the targeting
of the health system you know from the
whole idea that that sh shifa has all of
these underground bunkers and none of
them were found these command and
control centers all of this had it been
true uh uh one we would have been you
you as journalists would have been taken
on tours underneath shiffer Hospital in
these bunkers if you can make excuses
for kids being killed if you can somehow
come up with an excuse and be like well
you know there were these people that
were hiding in the area or you know it's
the in 2006 the people of Gaza voted
this way then there's one of two things
I mean either you don't view them as
human beings or you think that it's that
you're going to somehow arrive at a
solution by doing this and I think both
are incredibly wrong you will never you
know achieve any sort of solution just
by know killing as many kids that have
been killed or as many innocent people
that have been killed and the second
part of this is yes if you don't think
that they are kids like your kids if you
don't view a young a young girl like uh
like somebody Who You're related to then
you can easily come up with these
excuses but that's what I would
challenge people to I challenge them to
just be able to look at Palestinians and
see themselves in the Palestinians see
your own family see your own life story
and if you can do that I guarantee
you'll come up with a different answer I
think that the Palestinian perspective
has not been given the enough
opportunity to present itself in
mainstream media in Western Med stream
media there are uh in my my own opinions
there are biased coverage of the
situation of the situation in Gaza so I
think when you don't give those people
under uh attack uh their voice or they
don't give them a platform to uh um to
speak about their restorm to speak about
their situation freely the only way it's
possible to get here to get to the point
where the world sits back the majority
of the world sits back and um allows
for just a systematic destruction of a
place where there's there's people um
who are unarmed 40% of the population
under the age of 14 the vast majority of
the people who died in my hands were
were children the only way that's
possible um is if we've inherited or
bought it into a narrative where these
people are less deserving of of of our
care and US recognizing their humanity
and uh unfortunately we've gotten to a
state of affairs where um you know
Palestinian or Gaz and blunt is not as
valuable as somebody else's that the
tears of uh a mother who Mourns her
child and Gaza is not recognized as
meaningful uh as somebody else um and
and what I saw when I went there was the
opposite of that I saw people more
deserving than everybody else ever met
in my life and I that sounds cliche and
but I promise you I sat with people who
tried to give me gifts when they had
nothing and they tried to feed me when
they didn't have food and they um you
know they showed me a lot of love when
when the world hasn't shown been
[Music]
love at the end of the day if you
increase the supply of weapons 10 times
since the 7th of October if you ensure
that the genocide continues for 10
months if you uh continue to provide
political support for the Israeli
government in the genericide you are
just as complicit the United Kingdom the
United States Germany France all of
these governments who are supporting and
supplying Israel with the weapons that
it needs and continue to do that to this
day to this day the British the new
British government refuses to impose an
arms embargo neither does the German
government neither does the French
govern but the second thing is the
political cover I mean that's something
that as a physician um I didn't I don't
have any experience in I don't know much
about politics but what I saw in Gaza
gave me a crash course a lesson into how
horrible things can happen and it's when
you have powers that should be able to
step in intervene and stop that they're
not doing it everybody the entire world
not just the Western world but the the
Arab world uh everybody Bears some
responsibility of what's taking place
here um we witnessed Horrors unfold in
Gaza and you can use whatever term you
want to use for It Whatever legal term
you can fight me on that but the bottom
line is the images and the footage that
has emerged from Gaza and the eyewitness
testimonies they speak for themselves
and we've watched it happen it's
continued and continued and continued
and we have not stopped it I'm
embarrassed to face or speak to my
colleagues in Gaza to my Palestinian
Brothers I don't know what to say to
them I failed them on every single level
of being able to deliver what I can
deliver and I think the same can be said
for all of these different politicians
and policy makers across the board you
totally failed them whether you care
about that or not I think that speaks to
who you are as a person but for me it's
something obviously that kills me
I really would like the world particular
the Europe accept more patient from Gaza
because they really need your help and
we could still save their life but
remaining here they may lose their life
that's my plea to the people in the
Europe but you know our whole my whole
life um I have you know kind of had to
confront you know sort of the
dehumanization of Palestinians you know
the fact that we're always kind of
painted in this you know very singular
one-dimensional approach you know very
violent people uh you know terrorists I
mean this is the things that we've had
to confront and you know I think that
that's beginning to change I think we're
start people are starting to see um who
we are the richness of the culture The
Bravery of the people the um the family
oriented Society you know just the
remarkable nature of who Palestinians
are because the people in Gaza are
finally able to sort of communic amidst
all of this tragedy they're able to you
know share who they are and that's
coming to light and it's
[Music]
[Applause]
undeniable the fact that I think we're
people see us now we're more visible I
think that's
promising you sort of see the beauty of
who they are you see how resilient they
are how incredible of a people they are
uh I do think that's coming through and
I think that's step one to getting us
solution long term the health of the
people can only be achieved once we make
Society healthy and that's toally
lucky how are we going to rebuild here
there is no potential to rebuild when uh
the sewer systems have been destroyed
and the Water Systems have been
destroyed and the hospital building
infrastructure is all gone uh the money
wouldn't fix that problem today which is
kind of a crazy thing to say out
loud the it's called going to require a
tremendous amount of time just to clean
two3 of the Heth facilities are
destroyed they are not functional if you
want to rehabilitate them you have to
first clean them from weapon
contamination after an earthquake you
can just start digging and and and you
you build and you you take off the the
rub rubbles and but here if you would
start like this you have a high risk
that it will come to further explosions
[Applause]
there's a saying in Gaza now that I
think people who have been there
realized but it's like you know the
lucky ones are the ones that have been
killed so you know like uh it's um it's
easier for the one that
dies those are the ones who are lucky
and it's the rest of us that are kind of
living in this misery and that are
living uh kind of in this in these in
these horrific conditions and you
understand what they're talking
[Music]
about the only thing that prevents us
from uh rebuilding and having a bit a
brighter future is the political
determination or will of the
government uh of the Israeli government
to be honest with you a complete
ceasefire and the opening of the real
opening of humanitarian corridors to
allow the Reconstruction and the
rebuilding of the health system of the
water sewage to allow food to come
in so they used to always
[Music]
say there's a war after the
war and what they're referring to is
just like having to pick up the pieces
having to process everything that
they've lost and having to start life
over again but it also told me that they
were ready to I mean the the
Palestinians are still looking towards
tomorrow I mean there's still kind of
like that that process like hey this
will be over and then we're going to
have to you know we'll start again